today i fell to two years of negotiations
united states
together we're international partners
cheap something the decades of animosity has not
comprehensive long term deal
with the wrong warp or bennett
from obtaining a nuclear weapon
this deal demonstrates that american diplomacy can bring about real and meaningful change
change that makes our country i am a world safer more secure
those deals also in line with a tradition of american leadership
it's now more than fifty years as president kennedy
the before the murder people i'm said
let us never negotiate out here but let us never fear
to negotiate
he was picking them about the need for discussions between the eyes states and soviet union
sweats efforts to restore it
read of nuclear weapons
most days of rest
was a catastrophic nuclear war between two superpowers
in our time the risk is that nuclear weapons will spread to more and more conflicts
certainly in the middle east
most volatile region
in our world
today
because america negotiated for my position of strength
principal
we have stop the spread of nuclear weapons in this region
cause of this beyond
the international community will be able to verify
the islamic republic of a lot will not develop
the nuclear weapon
does you'll meet every single one of the bomb wives we establish one week cheap if we work earlier this point
every pathway to a nuclear weapon
come on
the inspection and transparency regime necessary to verify that objective
will be put in place
because of the steel rod will not reduce the high we reach your radium weapons were to talk him
form a raw materials necessary for a nuclear bomb
because of this your allotment were move
two thirds of it's installed centrifuges
the machines necessary to produce highly rich you rate him
for a ball
and store them
under constant international supervision
ron walmart use its event centrifuges to produce enrich your radio
for the next decade
rom also get rid of ninety eight percent of its stockpile of the rich
you're right
a better perspective rock for we have a stockpile the computers up to ten nuclear weapons
because of this deal
that stockpile will be reduced to a fraction
what would be required freezing weather
the stock politician will last
figures
because of this bill rommel modifier
portage reactor in rock
snooker will mop
produce weapons grade plutonium
and it has agreed to ship the spent fuel from a reactor all of a comfortable life time of the react
for at least the next fifteen years
iran will not build any
new heavy water reactor
because of this deal we will for the first time in a position to verify all of these commitments
that means his view is not built on trust
it is built on turf cage
actors will have
forty four seven access to rods he knew group of soldiers
rommel have access to rods entire nuclear supply to
during a mile to males
conversion fizzled
then it's centrifuge manufacturing and storage the soul is
this ensures that are raw mob you would divert materials from north of seoul is
cool
some reassurance currency measures would be in place
forty five years
because of israel and specter's walls we want to access any suspicious location
put simply we organization responsible for the inspired
t i eighty eight
will have access were necessary
when masses are
that arrangement
palmer
and the i e eight
has also reached number him with iran to get taxes
but it needs to complete its investigation of a possible military dimension
rods
past research
while iran is formally prohibited from pursuing a nuclear weapon or the nuclear nonproliferation treaty
which provided the basis for the international can use effort
like pressure on or off
as ron take steps to implement this new
you will receive only from the sanctions we put in place
cause of bronze know for for
all the murders on sanctions
and sanctions imposed by the united nations
three counts
we've we faced them
ramos complete
he knew where steps
ford biggest receive new sanctions wait
and over the course of the next decade
or wrong almost applied
why the deal
before additional sanctions or what
during five years for restrictions related to orange
and a years for restrictions related to blistered message
all this will be memorialized endorsed
a new united nations surgery council resolution
and of rock by what's the deal
all these sanctions will snap back into place
so there's a very clear incentive for rob fall through
and there are very real consequences
for your mileage
that's the beat
it has the full backing of the international community
i was well have
not to read reviews the details of my best version stairs rage provide expensive briefings
on how this will move forward
every market to boycott worst movie of the deal
you will be important to consider the alternative
consider what happens in the world
without this deal
about this deal there is no scenario where the world joins
in sanctioning them wrong
to look completely dismantles
its nuclear program
driving we know about iranian government suggest that would simply capitulate on the back on russia
in the world would not support an effort to permit recession or on into submission
put sanctions and place to get a diplomatic resolution
that is what we've got
without this rio de would be no grip on tissues for the iranian nuclear program
rock to produce operate
test more more centrifuges
record
fuel a reactor capable of producing plutonium for bomb
there we would not have any of the inspections were lost
to detect
covert nuclear weapons program
in other words
no no means a no lasting come spring summer ron's nuclear power
just a narrow would make it more likely
but other countries new region feel compelled to pursue their own nuclear power
trimming a nuclear arms race the most volatile region of the world
we're also presented states with fewer
unless effect of options
for better or ron from trading
the nuclear work
i've been present income energy
for for six years now
time again i've faced decisions about whether or not to use motor force
when this assertion that the present estimate
many times
in multiple conflicts
i have decided to use force
i'll never hesitate to do so when it is in our national search for him first
i strongly believe
our national scurry interest
now
hands up on renting a lot from obtaining a nuclear weapon
which means good without a diplomatic resolution
i drive
for a future us pres
they say decision about whether or not to allow wrong
during a nuclear weapon
warm weather to use our military
it's employed
no deal means a greater chance
of war war
the least
moreover we give
testing whether or not this problem can be solved peacefully
if
and worse case scenario wrong violates the deal
the same options for bill walton me today will be available to any us president in the future
i've no doubt
ten or fifteen years from now
person who hold this office
will be in a far stronger position
with a rock
further where where where
him with the inspections and transparency that allow us to monitor
the rhyme for
for this reason
i believe it would be your response off
to walk away from israel
but
on such a tough issue
it is important to be murdered people and representatives and timers
get a full option you were viewed you
for all the details matter
we've heads of the finest nuclear scientists in the world
walking through those details
and we're dealing with a comfort
or wrong that has been a swarm ever serbia by the states for over thirty five years
so i walk
a robust debate in congress on this issue and i welcome screen of the details of disagreement
but i will call my cars
the dome ideals wonders with your friends
we negotiated arms control rooms with the soviet union one that nation was committed to war destruction
and those women saltzman we made a sec
i am confident that this deal will meet
the nationals korean first of the night states
and our allies
swallow big toe
any legislation that prevents
the successful implementation
others view
we do not have to accept
and ever will spiral into conflict
murray's serve mushrooms a kid
precisely because the stakes are so hot
this is not the time for politics
posture
top washington does not so props
for those diplomas
leadership that as you might have been the world's major powers
offers are more fact of what a verified
but ron is not pursuing nuclear weapon
now
that doesn't mean that his view was all all of our differences with the rock
we share the existence or verge rus by many of our friends i'm a waste
klingons rwanda goals
but alonso support for terrorism
managers of rock singers
to be stabilize the region
that is precisely why we are taking the step
because we're wrong on with nuclear weapon would be far more to stabilizing and far more dangerous to our friends
and to the world
meanwhile we will maintain our
holmes sections way to run support for terrorism
ballistic missile program and human rights violations
we will continue
press and efforts
to strengthen
goodwill surgery
towards the goal beyond what any murder much friction is done before
and we will continue to work we began a gambit
to elevate our partnership with the gulf states
the strength and
their capabilities to cover threats from rom or terrorist groups like isis
farmer i believe it
we must continue to test
whether or not
this region
which is mom so much softly
so much watch it
to move
in a different direction
time again i've made clear to the iranian people
there we
always be open to engagement on the basis of
full interests
a mutual respect
our differences are real
and of course history between our nations cannot be ignored
it is possible to change
half of violence
and rigid ideology
for pulsing based on threats to attack her neighbors were wrecking his room
tibetans
the different era
talks
for resolution of conflict
leads to more integration into the pool or comic
more engagement with the international community
in the ability of iranian people
prosper
the steel offers an opportunity to move
in a new direction
we should seize it
come along way to reach this point
decades of rotting nuclear program
many years of sanctions
and many months of intense negotiation
today a lot back
the members of congress fumble tories who helped us put in place the sanctions that have proven sole factor
as was the other countries who joined as a matter of
or think or go shoot workers
united kingdom
france germany
russia
china
twelve we're being hit
for all your money in the zephyr
which short to the world
can do obama market opened her sure a vision of peacefully aggressive tops
the show we can do
we do not split apart
while our thanks
the murder negotiate
we're a team of experts working
for several weeks straight on us including our search or energy
early mornings
now what to click bank
dr
for such a state
who began his service
to this country more than four decades ago
put on our uniform
and we're off to war
he's now making this country safer throughs commitment to straw
principles
american culture
history shows the murder
mostly not just with our might
for their principles
it shows we are
stronger now we are all wont wont be boring
the world
today is announcement marks one more chapter
in this person
the safer
and more helpful
for world